this is the little town of Mesa it's
about ten kilometers outside of Brussels
and it is very famous for a certain man
by the name of Eddy Merckx and we've
come here to his house and factory for a
very special visit and it's always nice
for people like Paul showing and of
course me Phil eager to go and meet
Eddie when I was young racing cyclists I
knew I was never going to be the best in
the world because the man alongside me
in the peloton was a youngster known as
Eddy Merckx he was simply outstanding
his victory record speaks for itself he
rode 525 times first place in 1500 bike
races he won more than a third of the
races he ever took part in he carried
the pink jersey 77 times and the Giro
d'Italia he won that race five times if
he hadn't have been thrown out allegedly
for taking dope when he said it was a
fix he would have won at that race six
times he won five Tour de France he only
as passed only as five times Milan San
Remo seven times this man was known as
the cannibal and when it came to his
bikes he was sober Dante keyed and
carried the tape measure in his back
pocket and now with his own bike factory
he applies the same attention to detail
you'd expect that from a tee why ever
sure I want the first thing I want is to
have a good quality bike and you know I
always was very difficult about my
material because was my work so I went
that the fact he also delivered perfect
quality
what do you think Eddie because it took
a long time to turn away from steel this
kind of stuff now ah
the advantage steel yes it's not so
light now the way this if but more
weight with steel than with aluminium
now in this moment aluminium is the most
popular because it's very light and it's
not too expensive you say here we only
point the frame this now is for America
if you want to have still a little bit
the steel no so that's a special sizes
for a steel frame so you can see we can
change everything and now you're going
to point it and then after the bracelet
together what percentage is still
friends you make less and less oh yeah
maybe five or ten percent of the
production really is a steel
all the rest is aluminum and titanium
the time is it's not lighter than
aluminum which is much stiffer yeah it's
much different standing frame you have
it for your life whatever what do you
think about mixing of materials like
using some thirteen because I see there
you use carbon fiber in Alameda what
about one containing tube with caramel
and William where you don't like that I
prefer it with all the frame the same
the same yeah because the materials are
working the not the same thing now so I
think it's better to have the all the
materials the same but you going with
the click with the market yeah yeah yeah
yeah I show you will make the depending
that's still very much a traditionalist
now the paint shop but before we start
painting we we put the frames in
different baths for the anti-corrosion
protection for the frame is that
important for
yes yeah
then here first here we put a primer and
then and then we start paying the first
four score and then after they put
decals on like this see the different
decals and then they start painting the
different colors
five
that may never do the same there are two
the same and that's then a finished bike
so the blue you have silver you have
white and you have orange color and then
you have clear then the decals there's
no D Co yeah does it the painting
explaining it killed on first yeah pull
them off yeah yeah yeah yeah pull them
off after and then it was there you know
you were a fanatic with the bike
actually a little bit the same oldest he
just get on a ride no I will not say
only but not so far articles me I think
nobody exists I was still fanatic maybe
but it tells me for for the factory
because I think he's a little experience
in the race and that's very important to
wear the feeling when you're on the bike
and what you like what you don't like if
I walked into shop in America I wanted
an eddy merckx bike specific size and I
wanted personalized finishes on it how
long would it take me from ordering it
to getting it in the state yeah a pencil
or fast in order to me when the when the
order to me I think eight weeks then you
can have a special order the special
design you name on eight eight weeks in
Eddy if you could make more bikes would
you or are you just happy to keep the
company at the size that it is and
keeping everything you know tip-top
perfect I want I want to have the
factory at this size because I want to
have to control over all the quality of
my frames if I'm thinking about really
proud about my product and also people
who's using a product are very
comfortable and also very episode that's
for me a big victory good the only one
that's a bike here from seven to web
beat the our record with this
but the frame I didn't want to have a
very light frame because for the
deceived nerfs on the track
if the the frame is too light you lose a
lot of fitness but that was a titanium
specially made for me didn't ya
in 1972 1972 that's probably the first
ever titanium stem how much do you
reckon
despite would be worth no horse I don't
sell it add on seven hundred thousand
yeah I don't sell it it's gonna put a
limousine in Brussels yeah
professional cycling has changed a lot
since you raised him oh yeah yeah but
every sport changed yes and cycling is
no exception of course Eddy Merckx would
have loved it to have stayed the way it
was but Eddie's got an affinity with the
Americans ever since the 7-eleven team
were riding on his bikes and the hamster
won a tour of Italy and rode so well in
a Tour de France he too was a winner
doubt due as riding and Eddy Merckx
bicycle nothing makes Eddie more happy
than to see others win on his frames
Lance Armstrong when he was the American
and world champion back in 1993 the
great name mercs is set to continue he
now finishes the machinery for the domo
farm frites team from Belgium as well as
other smaller teams yoha museo this year
a winner of pari Roubaix the great man
riding a mercs machine mercs it also won
that race of course
and now axel mercs son of Eddie a
would-be footballer like Eddie was but
no a professional bike rider riding the
Mercs machine Eddy Merckx was a very
special man on the bike he makes very
special bicycles and true to form he
looks out for them all himself Eddy
Merckx and his bikes are a famous tandem